**JOB OPPORTUNITIES** **_(We are an equal opportunity employer)_** Applications are invited from well qualified persons for the following positions. Requisite qualification and experience is mentioned against each post: |  **Assistant Professor / Lecturer in Faculty of Computer Sciences and Engineering** |  PhD / MS in the relevant field with specialization in Microprocessor Interfacing, Real-Time Embedded Systems, Development Operations, Discrete Mathematics, Computer Organization and Assembly Language, Cloud and Distributed Computing, Digital System Design, Databases and Artificial Intelligence and Cyber Security from HEC recognized University / Institution, preferably with some publications in refereed journals of international repute. The applicant should have demonstrated the capability to conduct independent and original research. |   
---|---|---  
**Assistant Professor / Lecturer in Faculty of Mechanical Engineering** |  PhD / MS in the relevant field with specialization in Thermo-fluids and Design & Manufacturing from HEC recognized University / Institution, preferably with some publications in refereed journals of international repute. The applicant should have demonstrated the capability to conduct independent and original research. |   
**Lecturer in School of Management Sciences** |  The applicant should have Master’s Degree (18 Years Education)/ (First Class) in Management Sciences from HEC recognized University/Institution with no 3rd Division in the Academic career. The candidate should also mention their area of teaching expertise/specialization in their application/CV. |   
**Lecturer in Civil Engineering** |  The applicants should have Master’s Degree (First Class) in Architecture from HEC recognized University/Institution with no 3rd Division in the Academic Career. Preference will be given to the candidates having experience of at least 4 years Industrial experience. |   
**Driver** |  Matric with valid H.T.V./P.S.V driving license and 5 years’ heavy duty driving experience. |   
GIK offers competitive and attractive salary packages and fringe benefits / facilities. Interested candidates should send their applications online at **18 th March, 2022**. Only shortlisted applicants will be called for interview. No TA/DA will be paid for the interviews.  
---  
**Incharge (HR)**
**GIK Institute, Topi-23640, Swabi, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa,**
**Ph: 0938-281026 Ext: 2442**
