# Societies and Teams
The institute is situated in calm and tranquil countryside. The campus of the institute is a self-contained cosmos. Here the students generate a fullness of life for themselves, and their superabundant energies find outlets in a host of socio-cultural activities. Through generous financial allocations and faculty supervision, the institute supports all modes of constructive self-expression for the students. There is thus much on the campus by way of recreational facilities, which mitigate the rigors of very demanding academic engagements. To nurture intellectual and recreational activities, students are encouraged to join student societies in GIK Institute which are managed by students with the support of faculty and administration. Each society is assisted by a faculty advisor. Various kinds of technical and recreational events are organized by these societies which range from scientific to art competitions. GIK Institute recognizes a wide variety of student societies to facilitate diverse interests of the student body. **Department of Student Affairs is the governing body for all societies that are administered by student representatives**. Societies are granted certain privileges to promote student participation in a variety of physical, intellectual, and recreational activities. There are many student societies in GIK Institute which support contemporary scientific and engineering perspectives as well and are devoted to advance theory and practice of their respective fields. **The Institute hosts 29 student societies and more than 10 GIK teams working under the domain of societies** , most of which are affiliated with their respective national and international chapters.
### Department of Student Affairs
  * [Department of Student Affairs](https://giki.edu.pk/academics/dsa/)
  * [Society and Teams](https://giki.edu.pk/society-and-teams/)


