###### Admission Test for Engineering and Computer Science Programs
* * *
The admission to the Bachelor Programs of the Institute is decided on the basis of candidate’s earlier educational achievements and his/her score in the admission test, which comprises multiple choice questions based on Pakistani intermediate level Physics and Mathematics and English. The Syllabus of Admission Test and a sample of such questions can be downloaded here. [**Syllabus**](http://beta1.giki.edu.pk/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Syllabus.docx) – [**Sample Paper**](http://beta1.giki.edu.pk/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/SAMPAPER2013.pdf).
The test is held simultaneously at Rawalpindi, Peshawar, Lahore, Quetta, Karachi and Multan. The venue and general instructions for the test are intimated on Institute website. Applicants can choose the test center according to their convenience. The results of the admission test are communicated to the selected candidates online through admission website. 
For the candidates applying on the basis of SAT-II, the merit will be determined by their Percentile score.
A former student of the Institute whose enrolment was cancelled due to unsatisfactory academic performance is also allowed to appear in the admission test. If selected, he/she will be enrolled in the first semester as a freshman and may not be given credit for the courses passed earlier. Any student who is currently on the roll of the Institute and wants to change the faculty is allowed to appear in the admission test. If selected he/she will not be given credits for the courses passed earlier.
###### Admission Test for Management Sciences Program
* * *
The GIK Common Admissions Test (GCAT) will be taken for admission in BS Management Sciences at test centers. The GCAT will measure reading, writing, and mathematical skills with the objective to assess a candidate’s suitability for undergraduate study. Questions are designed to explore knowledge and skills acquired over a period of time, in order to compare candidates from different academic backgrounds.
[Admission Test Syllabus For Management Sciences](http://beta1.giki.edu.pk/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Admission-Test-Syllabus-for-Mgt.-Science-Final.pdf)
[Sample Paper For Management Sciences](http://beta1.giki.edu.pk/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/Sample-Tests-for-BS-Management.pdf)
###### Overseas Applicants
* * *
The overseas applicants have the option to take Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT-II) in Physics and Mathematics (Math IIC) in place of Institute’s Admission test. Applicants have to choose only one basis for their admission i.e. GIK Institute admission test or SAT-II, an option once exercised cannot be changed. The candidates filing two separate applications on two different bases for admission are liable to be disqualified.
An applicant for transfer from a local or foreign institution is required to have passed the Institute’s admission test or SAT – II (overseas applicants) respectively by securing equal or more marks than the minimum merit of the faculty in which he/she seeks admission. However, acceptance of request for transfer will depend on availability of seats, and the quality of academic work already done by the applicant. 
To send your SAT-II Score, use GIK Institute’s registered Institute Code: 0096
###### Advanced Standing Admissions
* * *
A person who has been enrolled for a relevant Bachelor degree program in engineering at some accredited (PEC, HEC) institution and has earned 15 or more transferable credits with minimum CGPA of 2.5 on the scale of 4, may apply to this Institute for admission with advance standing. However, the student at the GIK Institute wishing to qualify for a bachelor degree must earn a minimum of 70 credits including 6 credits of senior design project. An applicant for transfer from a local or foreign institution is required to have passed the Institute’s admission test or SAT-II (overseas applicants) respectively by securing equal to or more marks than the minimum merit of the faculty in which he/she seeks admission. Acceptance of request for transfer will depend on availability of seat, and the quality of academic work already done by the applicant. For supplementary information and application form please contact the Admission Office.
