Dr. Yousaf Ali is listed among the world’s Top 2% of scientists and researchers in the field of Management and Economics listed in the Stanford university-Elsevier list published in October 2022. This ranking is predominantly centered on international research published in diverse research fields, the number of citations, and the H-Index factors of researchers. This excludes the percentage of self –testimonials the researcher makes for his previous research.
Dr. Yousaf Ali obtained an MS degree in the field of Operations Research from the University of Southampton, UK. He also holds a Master’s degree in Applied Mathematics from Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad, Pakistan. He has completed his Ph.D. degree in (Economics & Management) from the University of Macerata (Italy). Dr. Yousaf has primary research interests in quantitative modeling practices in economics and management, Operational research, and environmental economics. Dr. Yousaf is currently offering his services to the reputable GIKI institute as an Associate Professor. He has published in prestigious journals such as Transportation Research Part E: Logistics and Transportation Review, International Journal of Logistic Management, Australian Journal of Management, Transportation Planning and Technology, Journal of Cleaner Production., Technological Forecasting and Social Change, Research in Transportation Economics, Journal of Safety Science, and Journal of Multi-Criteria Decision Analysis. Review of Income and Wealth, Journal of Environmental Hazards-Human & Policy Dimensions, Journal of Construction Management & Economics. Science of the Total Environment, Environment and Ecological Statistics. And Ecological economics.
He owes his scientific achievements to the struggles of his parents; Academic mentors, collaborators, students, friends, well-wishers, and the technical and financial support from the GIK Institute. Dr. Yousaf has secured numerous achievements, prominent of which include:
Secured Highly-Commended Paper Awards in the 2022 **Emerald Literati Awards of Excellence.**
GIK Researcher of the year (GIK Research Award 2018)
7th **HEC** outstanding best research award for the year 2017-2018
International Input-Output Association (IIOA) travel grant for the conference in **Mexico** (2015)
International Input-Output Association (IIOA) travel grant for the conference at **Atlantic City New Jersey USA** (2017).
85 research articles in high-ranked international journals
Worked as a visiting professor at European universities.
